Go: Models as Data Documentation (#17258)
github/codeql: docs/codeql/codeql-language-guides/customizing-library-models-for-go.rst

.. _customizing-library-models-for-go:

Customizing library models for Go
=================================

> You can model the methods and callables that control data flow in any framework or library. This is especially useful for custom frameworks or niche libraries, that are not supported by the standard CodeQL libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can model the methods and functions that control data flow in any framework or library. This is especially useful for custom frameworks or niche libraries, that are not supported by the standard CodeQL libraries.
```

.. include:: ../reusables/beta-note-customizing-library-models.rst

About this article
------------------

This article contains reference material about how to define custom models for sources, sinks, and flow summaries for Go dependencies in data extension files.

About data extensions
---------------------

> You can customize analysis by defining models (summaries, sinks, and sources) of your code's Go dependencies in data extension files. Each model defines the behavior of one or more elements of your library or framework, such as methods, properties, and callables. When you run dataflow analysis, these models expand the potential sources and sinks tracked by dataflow analysis and improve the precision of results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize analysis by defining models (summaries, sinks, and sources) of your code's Go dependencies in data extension files. Each model defines the behavior of one or more elements of your library or framework, such as functions, methods, and fields. When you run dataflow analysis, these models expand the potential sources and sinks tracked by dataflow analysis and improve the precision of results.
```

I don't think "properties" or "callables" make sense for Go. The elements of a Go library or framework that you can model with data extensions are functions, methods and fields. Arguably methods are also functions, so we could just say "functions and fields".

The extensible predicates are populated using the models defined in data extension files.

Examples of custom model definitions
------------------------------------

The examples in this section are taken from the standard CodeQL Go query pack published by GitHub. They demonstrate how to add tuples to extend extensible predicates that are used by the standard queries.

Example: Taint sink in the ``database/sql`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This example shows how the Go query pack models the argument of the ``Prepare`` method as a SQL injection sink.
This is the ``Prepare`` method of the ``DB`` type in the ``database/sql`` package which creates a prepared statement.

.. code-block:: go

    func Tainted(db *sql.DB, name string) {
        stmt, err := db.Prepare("SELECT * FROM users WHERE name = " + name) // The argument to this method is a SQL injection sink.
        ...
    }

> We need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sinkModel
       data:
         - ["database/sql", "DB", False, "Prepare", "", "", "Argument[0]", "sql-injection", "manual"]

Since we want to add a new sink, we need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel`` extensible predicate.

> The first five values identify the callable (in this case a method) to be modeled as a sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first five values identify the function (in this case a method) to be modeled as a sink.
```

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the sink.

- The seventh value ``Argument[0]`` is the ``access path`` to the first argument passed to the method, which means that this is the location of the sink.
- The eighth value ``sql-injection`` is the kind of the sink. The sink kind is used to define the queries where the sink is in scope. In this case - the SQL injection queries.
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the sink, which is used to identify the origin of the sink.

Example: Taint source from the ``net`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models the return value from the ``Listen`` method as a ``remote`` source.
This is the ``Listen`` function which is located in the ``net`` package.

.. code-block:: go

    func Tainted() {
        ln, err := net.Listen("tcp", ":8080") // The return value of this method is a remote source.
        ...
    }

> We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sourceModel
       data:

>          - ["net", "", False, "Listen", "(string,string)", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]

Author: ```suggestion
         - ["net", "", False, "Listen", "", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]
```

Since we are adding a new source, we need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel`` extensible predicate.

> The first five values identify the callable (in this case a function) to be modeled as a source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a source.
```

- The first value ``net`` is the package name.
- The second value ``""`` is left blank, since the function is not a method of a type.
- The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the source also applies to all overrides of the method.
- The fourth value ``Listen`` is the function name.

> - The fifth value ``(string,string)`` is the method input type signature.

Author: ```suggestion
- The fifth value ``""`` is the function input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions or methods may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.
```

- The seventh value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the return of the method, which means that it is the return value that should be considered a source of tainted input.
- The eighth value ``remote`` is the kind of the source. The source kind is used to define the threat model where the source is in scope. ``remote`` applies to many of the security related queries as it means a remote source of untrusted data. As an example the SQL injection query uses ``remote`` sources. For more information, see ":ref:`Threat models <threat-models-go>`."
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the source, which is used to identify the origin of the source.

Example: Add flow through the ``Join`` function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models flow through a method for a simple case.
This pattern covers many of the cases where we need to summarize flow through a function that is stored in a library or framework outside the repository.

.. code-block:: go

    func TaintFlow() {
        elems := []string{"Hello", "World"}
        sep := " "

>         t := strings.Join(elems, sep) // There is taint flow from ss and sep to t.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        t := strings.Join(elems, sep) // There is taint flow from elems and sep to t.
```

        ...
    }

> We need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[0]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[1]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.
The first row defines flow from the first argument (``elems`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example) and the second row defines flow from the second argument (``sep`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example).

> The first five values identify the callable (in this case a method) to be modeled as a summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a summary.
```

These are the same for both of the rows above as we are adding two summaries for the same method.

> - The first value ``strings`` is the pacakge name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The first value ``strings`` is the package name.
```

- The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.

It would also be possible to merge the two rows into one by using ".." to indicate a range in the seventh value. This would be useful if the method has many arguments and the flow is the same for all of them.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[0..1]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

This row defines flow from both the first and the second argument to the return value. The seventh value ``Argument[0..1]`` is shorthand for specifying an access path to both ``Argument[0]`` and ``Argument[1]``.

Example: Add flow through the ``Hostname`` method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models flow through a method for a simple case.

.. code-block:: go

    func TaintFlow(u *url.URL) {
        host := u.Hostname() // There is taint flow from u to s.
        ...
    }
    

> We need to add a tuple to the ``summaryModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to add a tuple to the ``summaryModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:

>          - ["net/url", "URL", False, "Hostname", "", "", "Argument[receiver]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

Author: ```suggestion
         - ["net/url", "URL", True, "Hostname", "", "", "Argument[receiver]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]
```

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.
The first row defines flow from the qualifier of the method call (``u`` in the example) to the return value (``host`` in the example).

> The first five values identify the callable (in this case a method) to be modeled as a summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first five values identify the function (in this case a method) to be modeled as a summary.
```

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the summary.

- The seventh value is the access path to the input (where data flows from). ``Argument[receiver]`` is the access path to the receiver (``u`` in the example).
- The eighth value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the output (where data flows to), in this case ``ReturnValue``, which means that the input flows to the return value.
- The ninth value ``taint`` is the kind of the flow. ``taint`` means that taint is propagated through the call.
- The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.

Example: Accessing the ``Body`` field of an HTTP request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how we can model a field read as a source of tainted data.

.. code-block:: go

   func TaintFlow(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
       body := r.Body // The Body field of an HTTP request is a source of tainted data.
       ...
   }

> We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.
```

Since we are adding a new source, we need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the field to be modeled as a source.

- The first value ``net/http`` is the package name.
- The second value ``Request`` is the name of the type that the field is associated with.
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the source also applies to all overrides of the field.
- The fourth value ``Body`` is the field name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is blank since it is a field access and field accesses do not have method signatures in Go.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the source.

- The seventh value ``""`` is left blank. Leaving the access path of a source model blank indicates that it is a field access.
- The eighth value ``remote`` is the source kind. This indicates that the source is a remote source of untrusted data.
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the source, which is used to identify the origin of the source.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Package versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For versions greater than 1, the version number is included in the package import path, usually as ``/v2``. This is called the major version suffix. We normally want our models to apply to all versions of a package. Rather than having to repeat models with the package column changed to include all available versions, we can just use the package name without the major version suffix and this will be matched to any version. So models with ``github.com/couchbase/gocb`` in the package column will match packages imported from ``github.com/couchbase/gocb`` and ``github.com/couchbase/gocb/v2`` (or any other version). Note that packages hosted at ``gopkg.in`` use a slightly different syntax: the major version suffix looks like ``.v2`` and is present even for version 1. This is also supported. So models with ``gopkg.in/yaml`` in the package column will match packages imported from ``gopkg.in/yaml.v1``, ``gopkg.in/yaml.v2`` and ``gopkg.in/yaml.v3``.

To write models that only apply to ``github.com/couchbase/gocb/v2``, it is sufficient to include the major version suffix (``/v2``) in the package column. To write models that only apply to ``github.com/couchbase/gocb``, you may prefix the package column with ``fixed-version:``. For example, here are two models for a method that has changed name from v1 to v2.

.. code-block:: yaml
  extensions:
  - addsTo:
      pack: codeql/go-all
      extensible: sinkModel
    data:
      - ["fixed-version:github.com/couchbase/gocb", "Cluster", True, "ExecuteAnalyticsQuery", "", "", "Argument[0]", "nosql-injection", "manual"]
      - ["github.com/couchbase/gocb/v2", "Cluster", True, "AnalyticsQuery", "", "", "Argument[0]", "nosql-injection", "manual"]

```

Package grouping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since Go uses URLs for package identifiers, it is possible for packages to be imported with different paths. For example, the ``glog`` package can be imported using both the ``github.com/golang/glog`` and ``gopkg.in/glog`` paths.

To handle this, the CodeQL Go library uses a mapping from the package path to a group name for the package. This mapping can be specified using the ``packageGrouping`` extensible predicate, and then the models for the APIs in the package

> will use the group name in place of the package path. The package field in models will be the prefix ``group:`` followed by the group name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will use the the prefix ``group:`` followed by the group name in place of the package path.
```

Examples of custom model definitions
------------------------------------

The examples in this section are taken from the standard CodeQL Go query pack published by GitHub. They demonstrate how to add tuples to extend extensible predicates that are used by the standard queries.

Example: Taint sink in the ``database/sql`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This example shows how the Go query pack models the argument of the ``Prepare`` method as a SQL injection sink.
This is the ``Prepare`` method of the ``DB`` type in the ``database/sql`` package which creates a prepared statement.

.. code-block:: go

    func Tainted(db *sql.DB, name string) {
        stmt, err := db.Prepare("SELECT * FROM users WHERE name = " + name) // The argument to this method is a SQL injection sink.
        ...
    }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sinkModel
       data:

>          - ["database/sql", "DB", False, "Prepare", "", "", "Argument[0]", "sql-injection", "manual"]

Reviewer: The new convention is that we set subtypes=True when it has a meaning (i.e. the second column isn't empty) and False otherwise.
```suggestion
         - ["database/sql", "DB", True, "Prepare", "", "", "Argument[0]", "sql-injection", "manual"]
```

Since we want to add a new sink, we need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the function (in this case a method) to be modeled as a sink.

- The first value ``database/sql`` is the package name.
- The second value ``DB`` is the name of the type that the method is associated with.

> - The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to all overrides of the method.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth a little text to explain what "overrides" means in a Go context

Reviewer: I've made a suggestion for this in my review.

> - The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to all overrides of the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This includes when the subtype embeds the given type, so that the method or field is promoted to be a method or field of the subtype. For interface methods it also includes types which implement the interface type.
```

- The fourth value ``Prepare`` is the method name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is the method input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions or methods may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the sink.

> - The seventh value ``Argument[0]`` is the ``access path`` to the first argument passed to the method, which means that this is the location of the sink.

Reviewer 2: Would be good to give some example with a field or element access, to make clear that it can be more than just an arg spec or similar.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models the return value from the ``FormValue`` method as a ``remote`` source.
This is the ``FormValue`` method of the ``Request`` type which is located in the ``net/http`` package.

.. code-block:: go

    func Tainted(r *http.Request) {
        name := r.FormValue("name") // The return value of this method is a source of tainted data.
        ...
    }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sourceModel
       data:
         - ["net/http", "Request", True, "FormValue", "", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]

Since we are adding a new source, we need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a source.

- The first value ``net/http`` is the package name.
- The second value ``Request`` is the type name, since the function is a method of the ``Request`` type.

> - The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the source also applies to all overrides of the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This includes when the subtype embeds the given type, so that the method or field is promoted to be a method or field of the subtype. For interface methods it also includes types which implement the interface type.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[0]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[1]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.
The first row defines flow from the first argument (``elems`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example) and the second row defines flow from the second argument (``sep`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example).

The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a summary.
These are the same for both of the rows above as we are adding two summaries for the same method.

- The first value ``strings`` is the package name.
- The second value ``""`` is left blank, since the function is not a method of a type.

> - The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the summary also applies to all overrides of the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This has no effect for non-method functions.
```

- The fourth value ``Join`` is the function name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is left blank, since specifying the signature is optional and Go does not allow multiple signature overloads for the same function.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the summary.

- The seventh value is the access path to the input (where data flows from). ``Argument[0]`` is the access path to the first argument (``elems`` in the example) and ``Argument[1]`` is the access path to the second argument (``sep`` in the example).
- The eighth value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the output (where data flows to), in this case ``ReturnValue``, which means that the input flows to the return value.

> - The ninth value ``taint`` is the kind of the flow. ``taint`` means that taint is propagated through the call.

Reviewer 2: Mention that this could be `value` and the difference between them?

Author: Would examples relating to the `slices` package make sense? Something like `slices.MaxFunc` is comparable to the Java example (`Stream#map`) in terms of:

1. Value flow `element` -> `func`
2. Value flow `element` -> `return value`

Though that brings up some other questions:

- How does MaD-for-Go handle generics?
- Are elements of slices handled by `.ArrayElement`? (Based on how `append` is modeled I think so, but want to check)

Author: I'm thinking something like:

for `func MaxFunc[S ~[]E, E any](x S, cmp func (a, b E) int) E`

```yaml
- ["slices", "", True, "MaxFunc", "", "", "Argument[0].ArrayElement", "Argument[1].Parameter[0]", "value", "manual"] 
- ["slices", "", True, "MaxFunc", "", "", "Argument[0].ArrayElement", "Argument[1].Parameter[1]", "value", "manual"] 
- ["slices", "", True, "MaxFunc", "", "", "Argument[0].ArrayElement", "ReturnValue", "value", "manual"] 
```

Author: Other decent options I can think of:

- `slices.Reverse` (`Argument[0].ArrayElement -> ReturnValue.ArrayElement`)
- `slices.Concat`, though that has some annoyances around varargs

Reviewer: The go dataflow library doesn't currently deal with lambdas, so I don't think the first two of those models would work. `slices.Concat` might be good - yes, the variadic argument makes it more complicated, but it also gives you an opportunity to explain how to model variadic arguments, which is currently missing. (Not that these docs have to be exhaustive.)

- The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.

It would also be possible to merge the two rows into one by using ".." to indicate a range in the seventh value. This would be useful if the method has many arguments and the flow is the same for all of them.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[0..1]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

This row defines flow from both the first and the second argument to the return value. The seventh value ``Argument[0..1]`` is shorthand for specifying an access path to both ``Argument[0]`` and ``Argument[1]``.

Example: Add flow through the ``Hostname`` method
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models flow through a method for a simple case.

.. code-block:: go

    func TaintFlow(u *url.URL) {

>         host := u.Hostname() // There is taint flow from u to s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        host := u.Hostname() // There is taint flow from u to host.
```

        ...
    }
    
We need to add a tuple to the ``summaryModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["net/url", "URL", True, "Hostname", "", "", "Argument[receiver]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.
The first row defines flow from the qualifier of the method call (``u`` in the example) to the return value (``host`` in the example).

The first five values identify the function (in this case a method) to be modeled as a summary.

- The first value ``net/url`` is the package name.
- The second value ``URL`` is the receiver type.

> - The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the summary also applies to all overrides of the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This includes when the subtype embeds the given type, so that the method or field is promoted to be a method or field of the subtype. For interface methods it also includes types which implement the interface type.
```

- The fourth value ``Hostname`` is the method name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is left blank, since specifying the signature is optional and Go does not allow multiple signature overloads for the same function.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the summary.

- The seventh value is the access path to the input (where data flows from). ``Argument[receiver]`` is the access path to the receiver (``u`` in the example).

> - The eighth value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the output (where data flows to), in this case ``ReturnValue``, which means that the input flows to the return value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The eighth value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the output (where data flows to), in this case ``ReturnValue``, which means that the input flows to the return value. When there are multiple return values, use `ReturnValue[i]` to refer to the `i`th return value (starting from 0).
```

- The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.

Example: Accessing the ``Body`` field of an HTTP request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how we can model a field read as a source of tainted data.

.. code-block:: go

   func TaintFlow(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
       body := r.Body // The Body field of an HTTP request is a source of tainted data.
       ...
   }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

  extensions:
  - addsTo:
      pack: codeql/go-all
      extensible: sourceModel
    data:
      - ["net/http", "Request", True, "Body", "", "", "", "remote", "manual"]

Since we are adding a new source, we need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the field to be modeled as a source.

- The first value ``net/http`` is the package name.
- The second value ``Request`` is the name of the type that the field is associated with.

> - The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the source also applies to all overrides of the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. For fields this means when the field is accessed as a promoted field in another type.
```

- The second value ``URL`` is the receiver type.
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the summary also applies to all overrides of the method.
- The fourth value ``Hostname`` is the method name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is left blank, since specifying the signature is optional and Go does not allow multiple signature overloads for the same function.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the summary.

- The seventh value is the access path to the input (where data flows from). ``Argument[receiver]`` is the access path to the receiver (``u`` in the example).
- The eighth value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the output (where data flows to), in this case ``ReturnValue``, which means that the input flows to the return value.
- The ninth value ``taint`` is the kind of the flow. ``taint`` means that taint is propagated through the call.
- The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.

> Example: Add flow through the ``Select`` method
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> This example shows how the C# query pack models a more complex flow through a method.
> Here we model flow through higher order methods and collection types, as well as how to handle extension methods and generics.
> 
> .. code-block:: csharp
> 
>    public static void TaintFlow(IEnumerable<string> stream) {
>      IEnumerable<string> lines = stream.Select(item => item + "\n");
>      ...
>    }
> 
> We need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:
> 
> .. code-block:: yaml
> 
>    extensions:
>      - addsTo:
>          pack: codeql/csharp-all
>          extensible: summaryModel
>        data:
>          - ["System.Linq", "Enumerable", False, "Select<TSource,TResult>", "(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable<TSource>,System.Func<TSource,TResult>)", "", "Argument[0].Element", "Argument[1].Parameter[0]", "value", "manual"]
>          - ["System.Linq", "Enumerable", False, "Select<TSource,TResult>", "(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable<TSource>,System.Func<TSource,TResult>)", "", "Argument[1].ReturnValue", "ReturnValue.Element", "value", "manual"]
> 
> 
> Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
> Each tuple defines part of the flow that comprises the total flow through the ``Select`` method.
> The first five values identify the callable (in this case a method) to be modeled as a summary.
> These are the same for both of the rows above as we are adding two summaries for the same method.
> 
> - The first value ``System.Linq`` is the namespace name.
> - The second value ``Enumerable`` is the class (type) name.
> - The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the summary also applies to all overrides of the method.
> - The fourth value ``Select<TSource,TResult>`` is the method name, along with the type parameters for the method. The names of the generic type parameters provided in the model must match the names of the generic type parameters in the method signature in the source code.
> - The fifth value ``(System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable<TSource>,System.Func<TSource,TResult>)`` is the method input type signature. The generics in the signature must match the generics in the method signature in the source code.
> 
> The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
> The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the summary definition.
> 
> - The seventh value is the access path to the ``input`` (where data flows from).
> - The eighth value is the access path to the ``output`` (where data flows to).
> 
> For the first row:
> 
> - The seventh value is ``Argument[0].Element``, which is the access path to the elements of the qualifier (the elements of the enumerable ``stream`` in the example).
> - The eight value is ``Argument[1].Parameter[0]``, which is the access path to the first parameter of the ``System.Func<TSource,TResult>`` argument of ``Select`` (the lambda parameter ``item`` in the example).
> 
> For the second row:
> 
> - The seventh value is ``Argument[1].ReturnValue``, which is the access path to the return value of the ``System.Func<TSource,TResult>`` argument of ``Select`` (the return value of the lambda in the example).
> - The eighth value is ``ReturnValue.Element``, which is the access path to the elements of the return value of ``Select`` (the elements of the enumerable ``lines`` in the example).
> 
> For the remaining values for both rows:
> 
> - The ninth value ``value`` is the kind of the flow. ``value`` means that the value is preserved.
> - The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.
> 
> That is, the first row specifies that values can flow from the elements of the qualifier enumerable into the first argument of the function provided to ``Select``.  The second row specifies that values can flow from the return value of the function to the elements of the enumerable returned from ``Select``.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the source.

- The seventh value ``ReturnValue`` is the access path to the return of the method, which means that it is the return value that should be considered a source of tainted input.
- The eighth value ``remote`` is the kind of the source. The source kind is used to define the threat model where the source is in scope. ``remote`` applies to many of the security related queries as it means a remote source of untrusted data. As an example the SQL injection query uses ``remote`` sources. For more information, see ":ref:`Threat models <threat-models-go>`."
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the source, which is used to identify the origin of the source.

Example: Add flow through the ``Join`` function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models flow through a method for a simple case.
This pattern covers many of the cases where we need to summarize flow through a function that is stored in a library or framework outside the repository.

.. code-block:: go

>     func TaintFlow() {
>         ss := []string{"Hello", "World"}
>         sep := " "
>         t := strings.Join(ss, sep) // There is taint flow from ss and sep to t.
>         ...
>     }

Author: ```suggestion
    func TaintFlow() {
        elems := []string{"Hello", "World"}
        sep := " "
        t := strings.Join(elems, sep) // There is taint flow from ss and sep to t.
        ...
    }
```

We need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file:

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[0]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[1]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.

> The first row defines flow from the first argument (``ss`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example) and the second row defines flow from the second argument (``sep`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example).

Author: ```suggestion
The first row defines flow from the first argument (``elems`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example) and the second row defines flow from the second argument (``sep`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example).
```

The first five values identify the callable (in this case a method) to be modeled as a summary.
These are the same for both of the rows above as we are adding two summaries for the same method.

- The first value ``strings`` is the pacakge name.
- The second value ``""`` is left blank, since the function is not a method of a type.
- The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the summary also applies to all overrides of the method.
- The fourth value ``Join`` is the function name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is left blank, since specifying the signature is optional and Go does not allow multiple signature overloads for the same function.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the summary.

> - The seventh value is the access path to the input (where data flows from). ``Argument[0]`` is the access path to the first argument (``ss`` in the example) and ``Argument[1]`` is the access path to the second argument (``sep`` in the example).

Author: ```suggestion
- The seventh value is the access path to the input (where data flows from). ``Argument[0]`` is the access path to the first argument (``elems`` in the example) and ``Argument[1]`` is the access path to the second argument (``sep`` in the example).
```

- The eight value is ``Argument[1].Parameter[0]``, which is the access path to the first parameter of the ``System.Func<TSource,TResult>`` argument of ``Select`` (the lambda parameter ``item`` in the example).

For the second row:

- The seventh value is ``Argument[1].ReturnValue``, which is the access path to the return value of the ``System.Func<TSource,TResult>`` argument of ``Select`` (the return value of the lambda in the example).
- The eighth value is ``ReturnValue.Element``, which is the access path to the elements of the return value of ``Select`` (the elements of the enumerable ``lines`` in the example).

For the remaining values for both rows:

- The ninth value ``value`` is the kind of the flow. ``value`` means that the value is preserved.
- The tenth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the summary, which is used to identify the origin of the summary.

That is, the first row specifies that values can flow from the elements of the qualifier enumerable into the first argument of the function provided to ``Select``.  The second row specifies that values can flow from the return value of the function to the elements of the enumerable returned from ``Select``.

> Example: Add a ``neutral`` method
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> This example shows how we can model a method as being neutral with respect to flow. We will also cover how to model a property by modeling the getter of the ``Now`` property of the ``DateTime`` class as neutral.
> A neutral model is used to define that there is no flow through a method.
> 
> .. code-block:: csharp
> 
>    public static void TaintFlow() {
>        System.DateTime t = System.DateTime.Now; // There is no flow from Now to t.
>        ...
>    }
> 
> We need to add a tuple to the ``neutralModel``\(namespace, type, name, signature, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.
> 
> .. code-block:: yaml
> 
>    extensions:
>    - addsTo:
>        pack: codeql/csharp-all
>        extensible: neutralModel
>      data:
>        - ["System", "DateTime", "get_Now", "()", "summary", "manual"]
> 
> 
> Since we are adding a neutral model, we need to add tuples to the ``neutralModel`` extensible predicate.
> The first four values identify the callable (in this case the getter of the ``Now`` property) to be modeled as a neutral, the fifth value is the kind, and the sixth value is the provenance (origin) of the neutral.
> 
> - The first value ``System`` is the namespace name.
> - The second value ``DateTime`` is the class (type) name.
> - The third value ``get_Now`` is the method name. Getter and setter methods are named ``get_<name>`` and ``set_<name>`` respectively.
> - The fourth value ``()`` is the method input type signature.
> - The fifth value ``summary`` is the kind of the neutral.
> - The sixth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the neutral.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

.. code-block:: go

    func Tainted(db *sql.DB, name string) {
        stmt, err := db.Prepare("SELECT * FROM users WHERE name = " + name) // The argument to this method is a SQL injection sink.
        ...
    }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sinkModel
       data:
         - ["database/sql", "DB", False, "Prepare", "(string)", "", "Argument[0]", "sql-injection", "manual"]

Since we want to add a new sink, we need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the callable (in this case a method) to be modeled as a sink.

- The first value ``database/sql`` is the package name.
- The second value ``DB`` is the name of the type that the method is associated with.
- The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to all overrides of the method.

> - The fourth value ``Prepare`` is the method name. Constructors are named after the class.

Author: Yes I forgot to delete that sentence when I was rewriting the C# example.

- The seventh value ``Argument[0]`` is the ``access path`` to the first argument passed to the method, which means that this is the location of the sink.
- The eighth value ``sql-injection`` is the kind of the sink. The sink kind is used to define the queries where the sink is in scope. In this case - the SQL injection queries.
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the sink, which is used to identify the origin of the sink.

Example: Taint source from the ``net`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models the return value from the ``Listen`` method as a ``remote`` source.
This is the ``Listen`` function which is located in the ``net`` package.

.. code-block:: go

    func Tainted() {
        ln, err := net.Listen("tcp", ":8080") // The return value of this method is a remote source.
        ...
    }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(namespace, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sourceModel
       data:

>          - ["net", "", False, "Listen", "(string,string)", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]

Author: I am in the middle of adapting the C# docs. There are a few things which still need re-writing.

>          - ["net", "", False, "Listen", "(string,string)", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]

Author: The example that had been used in the C# example was the API for opening a socket. As I understand it, `Listen` is roughly the equivalent in Go, and would make sense as a remote flow source.

The wording from the C# documentation mentioned it being from a existing model, because sockets were already modeled in C#.

I am fine opening a small PR to add `Listen` as a remote flow source if we think that makes sense. Alternatively, I can reword this documentation to (1) remove the wording about being an existing model or (2) change it to a different API if you have a suggestion for a better function to highlight.

>          - ["net", "", False, "Listen", "(string,string)", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]

Reviewer: Ah, that makes sense. I recommend you talk about this model instead.

```
- ["net/http", "Request", True, "FormValue", "", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]
```

It is a classic "yes, that definitely is a source of untrusted data" that we tend to use for Go. Go is used a lot for dealing with http requests.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
   - addsTo:
       pack: codeql/csharp-all
       extensible: neutralModel
     data:
       - ["System", "DateTime", "get_Now", "()", "summary", "manual"]

Since we are adding a neutral model, we need to add tuples to the ``neutralModel`` extensible predicate.
The first four values identify the callable (in this case the getter of the ``Now`` property) to be modeled as a neutral, the fifth value is the kind, and the sixth value is the provenance (origin) of the neutral.

- The first value ``System`` is the namespace name.
- The second value ``DateTime`` is the class (type) name.
- The third value ``get_Now`` is the method name. Getter and setter methods are named ``get_<name>`` and ``set_<name>`` respectively.
- The fourth value ``()`` is the method input type signature.
- The fifth value ``summary`` is the kind of the neutral.
- The sixth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the neutral.

Example: Accessing the ``Body`` field of an HTTP request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This example shows how we can model a field as a source of tainted data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how we can model a field read as a source of tainted data.
```

Since we are adding a new source, we need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the field to be modeled as a source.

- The first value ``net/http`` is the package name.
- The second value ``Request`` is the name of the type that the field is associated with.
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the source also applies to all overrides of the field.
- The fourth value ``Body`` is the field name.
- The fifth value ``""`` is blank since it is a field access and field accesses do not have method signatures in Go.

The sixth value should be left empty and is out of scope for this documentation.
The remaining values are used to define the ``access path``, the ``kind``, and the ``provenance`` (origin) of the source.

- The seventh value ``""`` is left blank. Leaving the access path of a source model blank indicates that it is a field access.
- The eighth value ``remote`` is the source kind. This indicates that the source is a remote source of untrusted data.
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the source, which is used to identify the origin of the source.

Package grouping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Since Go uses URLs for package identifiers, it is possible for packages to be imported with different paths. For example, the ``glog`` package can be imported using both the ``github.com/golang/glog`` and ``gopkg.in/glog`` paths.

Reviewer: Before go modules, this was much more true. Now the go.mod file specifies the URL that this module expects to be found at, which creates a canonical import path for a module (and hence the packages it contains). The reasons why we want to group models for several different import paths are:
* forks (e.g. klog was forked from glog by kubernetes);
* when a package moves, we still want to analyse code written for the old import path.
We don't have to explain this all, but I mention it so you have it in mind when writing the sentence above.

> To handle this, the CodeQL Go library uses a mapping from the package path to a  name for the package. This mapping can be specified using the ``packageGrouping`` extensible predicate, and then the models for the APIs in the package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle this, the CodeQL Go library uses a mapping from the package path to a group name for the package. This mapping can be specified using the ``packageGrouping`` extensible predicate, and then the models for the APIs in the package
```

will use the group name in place of the package path. The package field in models will be the prefix ``group:`` followed by the group name.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go
         extensible: packageGrouping
       data:
         - ["glog", "github.com/golang/glog"]
         - ["glog", "gopkg.in/glog"]
    - addsTo:
        pack: codeql/go
        extensible: sinkModel
      data:

>         - ["group:glog", "Info", "()", "Argument[0]", "log-injection", "manual"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - ["group:glog", "", False, "Info", "", "", "Argument[0]", "log-injection", "manual"]
```

        ...
    }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, input, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sinkModel
       data:
         - ["database/sql", "DB", True, "Prepare", "", "", "Argument[0]", "sql-injection", "manual"]

Since we want to add a new sink, we need to add a tuple to the ``sinkModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the function (in this case a method) to be modeled as a sink.

- The first value ``database/sql`` is the package name.
- The second value ``DB`` is the name of the type that the method is associated with.
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This includes when the subtype embeds the given type, so that the method or field is promoted to be a method or field of the subtype. For interface methods it also includes types which implement the interface type.
- The fourth value ``Prepare`` is the method name.

> - The fifth value ``""`` is the method input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions or methods may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.

Reviewer: Make this the same each time, so users don't wonder why it varies.
```suggestion
- The fifth value ``""`` is the input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.
```

        ...
    }

We need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel``\(package, type, subtypes, name, signature, ext, output, kind, provenance) extensible predicate by updating a data extension file.

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: sourceModel
       data:
         - ["net/http", "Request", True, "FormValue", "", "", "ReturnValue", "remote", "manual"]

Since we are adding a new source, we need to add a tuple to the ``sourceModel`` extensible predicate.
The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a source.

- The first value ``net/http`` is the package name.
- The second value ``Request`` is the type name, since the function is a method of the ``Request`` type.
- The third value ``True`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This includes when the subtype embeds the given type, so that the method or field is promoted to be a method or field of the subtype. For interface methods it also includes types which implement the interface type.
- The fourth value ``FormValue`` is the function name.

> - The fifth value ``""`` is the function input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions or methods may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.

Reviewer: Make this the same each time, so users don't wonder why it varies.
```suggestion
- The fifth value ``""`` is the input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.
```

         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[0]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]
         - ["strings", "", False, "Join", "", "", "Argument[1]", "ReturnValue", "taint", "manual"]

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.
The first row defines flow from the first argument (``elems`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example) and the second row defines flow from the second argument (``sep`` in the example) to the return value (``t`` in the example).

The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a summary.
These are the same for both of the rows above as we are adding two summaries for the same method.

- The first value ``strings`` is the package name.
- The second value ``""`` is left blank, since the function is not a method of a type.
- The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This has no effect for non-method functions.
- The fourth value ``Join`` is the function name.

> - The fifth value ``""`` is left blank, since specifying the signature is optional and Go does not allow multiple signature overloads for the same function.

Reviewer: Make this the same each time, so users don't wonder why it varies.
```suggestion
- The fifth value ``""`` is the input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.
```

- The eighth value ``sql-injection`` is the kind of the sink. The sink kind is used to define the queries where the sink is in scope. In this case - the SQL injection queries.
- The ninth value ``manual`` is the provenance of the sink, which is used to identify the origin of the sink.

Example: Taint source from the ``net/http`` package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This example shows how the Go query pack models the return value from the ``FormValue`` method as a ``remote`` source.

> This is the ``FormValue`` method of the ``Request`` struct which is located in the ``net/http`` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the ``FormValue`` method of the ``Request`` type which is located in the ``net/http`` package.
```
I can't quite put my finger on why, but it sounds odd to talk about it as a struct. I guess the official documentation doesn't do that, and I've got used to that. (Any named/defined type can have methods defined on it.)

.. code-block:: yaml

   extensions:
     - addsTo:
         pack: codeql/go-all
         extensible: summaryModel
       data:
         - ["slices", "", True, "Max", "", "", "Argument[0].ArrayElement", "ReturnValue", "value", "manual"] 

Since we are adding flow through a method, we need to add tuples to the ``summaryModel`` extensible predicate.
Each tuple defines flow from one argument to the return value.
The first row defines flow from the first argument (``a`` in the example) to the return value (``max`` in the example).

The first five values identify the function to be modeled as a summary.
These are the same for both of the rows above as we are adding two summaries for the same method.

- The first value ``slices`` is the package name.
- The second value ``""`` is left blank, since the function is not a method of a type.
- The third value ``False`` is a flag that indicates whether or not the sink also applies to subtypes. This has no effect for non-method functions.
- The fourth value ``Max`` is the function name.

> - The fifth value ``""`` is left blank, since specifying the signature is optional and Go does not allow multiple signature overloads for the same function.

Reviewer: Make this the same each time, so users don't wonder why it varies.
```suggestion
- The fifth value ``""`` is the input type signature. For Go it should always be an empty string. It is needed for other languages where multiple functions may have the same name and they need to be distinguished by the number and types of the arguments.
```
